intro.adoc, before:

[[intro]]
== Introduction

Lorem ipsum indexterm:[Lorem ipsum] dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do *eiusmod tempor* incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Felis imperdiet proin fermentum leo vel orci porta. Volutpat lacus laoreet non curabitur indexterm:[curabitur] gravida indexterm:[gravida]. Posuere urna nec tincidunt praesent semper feugiat nibh. Elit ``ullamcorper`` dignissim cras tincidunt lobortis. Malesuada fames ac turpis egestas integer eget. Tristique sollicitudin nibh sit amet commodo. Sed felis eget velit aliquet. Sit amet aliquam id diam maecenas ultricies mi. Consectetur purus ut faucibus pulvinar. Lectus urna duis convallis convallis tellus id. Fermentum iaculis eu non diam. Feugiat in fermentum posuere urna nec tincidunt praesent semper feugiat. Urna nec tincidunt praesent semper feugiat nibh.

Commodo viverra maecenas accumsan lacus. Vulputate odio ut enim blandit indexterm:[blandit] volutpat maecenas volutpat blandit. Urna porttitor rhoncus dolor purus non. Tellus mauris a diam maecenas sed. Vitae auctor eu augue ut lectus. Ridiculus mus mauris vitae ultricies leo integer. Consequat semper viverra nam *libero* justo laoreet sit amet. Pellentesque pulvinar pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et. Ac placerat vestibulum lectus mauris ``ultrices`` eros in cursus turpis. Accumsan in nisl nisi scelerisque eu ultrices vitae. Cras ornare arcu dui vivamus. Vitae congue mauris rhoncus aenean. Consequat mauris nunc congue nisi vitae suscipit tellus. Tempus egestas sed sed risus pretium quam vulputate dignissim. Quis varius quam quisque id diam vel. Mattis nunc sed blandit libero volutpat sed cras ornare arcu. Amet mauris commodo quis imperdiet massa tincidunt nunc.

[NOTE]
====
The name RISC-V indexterm:[RISC-V] was chosen to represent the fifth major RISC ISA design from UC Berkeley (RISC-I cite:[riscI-isca1981], RISC-II cite:[Katevenis:1983], SOAR cite:[Ungar:1984], and SPUR cite:[spur-jsscc1989] were the first four). We also pun on the use of the Roman numeral "V" to signify "variations" and "vectors", as support for a range of architecture research, including various data-parallel accelerators, is an explicit goal of the ISA design.
====

=== Sub Section of Introduction

Pellentesque habitant morbi *tristique* senectus et netus et. Aliquam purus sit amet luctus. Odio eu ``feugiat`` pretium nibh ipsum consequat nisl vel. Euismod lacinia at quis risus sed vulputate odio ut. Eu sem integer vitae justo eget. Cursus euismod quis viverra nibh. Tempus egestas sed sed risus. Quis imperdiet massa tincidunt nunc pulvinar. Id venenatis a condimentum vitae sapien pellentesque habitant.

Commit message:

Initial description in adoc format.
Signed-off-by: John Simpson <john.simpson@sifive.com>

Initial description of the 8-bit vector dot-product instructions as presented in Jan 2024.

intro.adoc, after:

[[intro]]
== Introduction

This document describes the proposed _vector_ _dot_ _product_
extensions for RISC-V.

Convolution operations have seen considerable speedup on other microprocessor architectures with the adoption of specialized dot-product instructions. Such convolutions are used in many AI/ML, image-processing, and DSP algorithms. These algorithms can be found in benchmark suites which are used to measure the relative performance of microprocessor cores with different ISAs against each other. This suite of _vector dot product_ extensions is designed to bring RISC-V vector performance up to or to exceed the level of the competition, depending on the implementation vector-length and number of vector ALUs.

The dot product operation is defined for four INT8 values held in a 32-bit element group with an accumulation back into a single 32-bit value with quad-widening. The dot-product operation takes the 8-bit values at the same index from each source and multiplies them together. The four products are summed together and accumulated into the 32-bit element of the destination register. If the instruction variant has any signed source data then the accumulation is performed into a signed value.

Given that the source data is 8-bits and accumulation is performed into 32-bits, it is presumed that overflow is infrequent and thus no saturation option has been provided. 

To save on opcode encoding space the unsigned-signed vector-vector variant is not encoded; it is always possible to swap the order of the input operands to the signed-unsigned vector-vector variant.
